Title: Vim!
Date: 2016-12-01 22:32
Author: JM
Category: Tools
Tags: Vim
Slug: vim
Status: published

Vim is a text editor renowned for its simplicity and efficiency, and is
based on the Vi text editor from the 1970's. It was first released in
1991 and is still being developed today. Using a system of keyboard
shortcuts, it's an efficient tool to navigate and edit text, and
therefore is less distracting than other editors. It comes pre-installed
on Unix systems (including MacOS) and can be run as a CLI from the
terminal.

Vim is famous in another way too - for being difficult to learn. I found
some good and remarkably creative tools to begin learning its concepts
and controls. This was necessary because there is no GUI. There is a
*game* [here](http://vim-adventures.com/), and there is [this
interactive tutorial](http://www.openvim.com/). There's also a built-in
vim tutorial - just type 'vimtutor' into Terminal.

Vim is designed so that you don't need to take your hands off your
keyboard and use a mouse. It has the 'insert' mode where you enter text
as usual, and the 'command' mode where you can make use of a deep and
flexible shortcut language to move around, edit and search the text.
With no GUI or toolbar, it looks like computing did in the 1970's, which
is disorienting at first.

You can run Vim from the terminal, but there are also versions that run
as standalone apps for the large operating systems. MacVim on MacOS has
the option to show a tool bar of simple commands like a normal program,
and lets the arrow keys move the cursor in addition to VIM's 'hjkl'
functionality. This makes getting started a little simpler.

There are also a lot of plugins to extend Vim's functionality and turn
it from a text editor into an IDE. [This
post](https://realpython.com/blog/python/vim-and-python-a-match-made-in-heaven/) walks
you through setting up Vim as a Python IDE and explains how to manage
various add-ons.
