Title: P90x
Date: 2016-08-12 20:35
Author: JM
Category: Fitness
Tags: Diet, Fitness, Lifestyle, P90x
Slug: p90x
Status: published

I've just begun the P90x exercise programme and I'm loving it. 6 days in
and I feel clear-headed and less stressed. Most of my day is spent
sitting at a desk and I could feel my back beginning to cause problems.
I could probably stop this with a less intense fitness regime, but that
wouldn't have a clear or challenging goal.

I'm having [less
trouble](http://johnmathews.eu/how-to-wake-up-early/)waking up early,
and I'm free of exams, so now is a great time to start. I've
completed the Insanity fitness programme a few times and I think it's
great, but it's getting repetitive. I always liked Insanity for its
simplicity, particularly the lack of any equipment, but this time I
wanted to try something new.

...

I've completed the first week, and so far it's going great! After the
first two days I could hardly get out of bed I was so sore, and 90
minutes of yoga on day 4 initially seemed incredibly boring, but it's
day 6 and I'm feeling relaxed, energised and looking forward to week 2.

Diet and nutrition are a huge part of the programme. From doing Insanity
I know that nutrition really affects results, so I'm doing my best to
eat clean and eat small regular meals. I've noticed my appetite
increasing.

[The nutrition guide breaks the programme down into 3 stages, and if
I've understood it correctly I'm supposed to have very few Carbs at the
beginning. But not too few otherwise I'll feel lethargic. I don't know
if I feel tired because of poor diet, or because I'm waking up at 6.30
and exercising for an hour...]{style="line-height: 1.5;"}

^1.\ Almost.\ I\ was\ a\ few\ days\ away\ each\ time.\ Too\ much\ jumping\ wears\ my\ knee\ out.[↩](#ref1 "Jump back to footnote 1 in the text.")^
